PAGE: Missions → Mission Centers
SOURCE: https://dioceseofkalookan.github.io/rcdok-website-new/missions/centers/

Mission Centers | Diocese of Kalookan
Skip to content

Mission Centers

Note
The Diocese of Kalookan partners with these mission centers to provide holistic care—medical, social, and spiritual—to our brothers and sisters in need.


Joseph Clinic Mission Center
Section titled “Joseph Clinic Mission Center”

Service Category
Medical & Charitable Care

Primary Address
268 MH Del Pilar cor. Tongco St., Maysilo, Malabon City

Contact
philjsclinic@naver.com

Mission & Purpose
Joseph Clinic is a medical institution providing charitable medical care to the poor and sick. Founded by the late Fr. Mathias Choi Young-Sik, the clinic follows a mission of caring for the vulnerable with the love of Christ. Helping poor neighbors is a concrete practice of the Church’s mission to provide healing to those in need.

01. Free Medical Care
We offer daily free medical care and free prescription services with the help of local volunteer doctors. In addition, the Korean medical team visits the clinic 2 or 3 times a year to provide medical services.

02. Free Meals for Children
We serve free meals because there are many children who are suffering from serious illnesses due to lack of nutrition. Lunch is provided to 200 children with malnutrition everyday.

03. Strategic Location (Malabon)
The clinic is located in Malabon City of the Diocese of Caloocan and is the poorest urban areas in the Philippines. Many residents are suffering from various diseases due to poor and polluted environment and many children are starving because of poverty and are not well educated.

04. Support Scholarships
Beyond health, the mission supports 60 scholars who would otherwise be unable to continue their studies, opening a path toward long-term empowerment.


Our Lady of Lujan Mission Center
Section titled “Our Lady of Lujan Mission Center”

Service Category
Shelter & Education for Girls

Primary Address
40 Pilar Rd., Morning Breeze Subdivision, Caloocan

Contact
0920 122 4707

Mission & Purpose
It is a non-stock, non-profit, non-government organization, and Registered and Licensed by the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD); managed and served by the Institute of Servants of the Lord and the Virgin of Matara (SSVM Sisters) which solely relies on the Divine Providence of God, through individual donations both local and abroad and also from foundations and any other religious organizations and private sectors.

01. Holistic Care for Girls
The center acts as a specialized home providing for the physical, emotional, and spiritual needs of girls, including many orphaned by Typhoon Yolanda.

02. Formation and Education
The mission focuses on providing moral, intellectual, and human formation to help the children develop, grow, and believe in their potential for a better life.

03. Faith-Based Outreach
Associated with the Our Lady of Lujan Parish and the Servants of the Lord the Virgin of Matará, the center integrates spiritual growth with daily care.

04. Support for Vulnerable Children
It is dedicated to helping children in difficult situations overcome their circumstances through care, protection, and education.


Tulay ng Kabataan
Section titled “Tulay ng Kabataan”

Service Category
Social Welfare and Development Organization

Primary Address
94 Kalayaan Ave., Brgy. Central, Quezon City

Contact
contact@anak-tnk.org

Mission & Purpose
For the past 25 years, ANAK-Tnk has been working with the poorest and most vulnerable people in Metro Manila, Philippines: children, abandoned people in the streets and families in the slums. The priority of ANAK-Tnk is the care of each and every child to help them rebuild their lives despite their deep wounds. The foundation’s actions are based on a family and lasting commitment.

01. Nutrition
In the Philippines, more than one in ten children do not have enough to eat and one in three is stunted. We provide balanced meals to children and training in nutrition to local poor communities.

02. Education
In the Philippines, one child out of ten is not attending school. We support each child throughout his or her schooling, which we adapt according to his or her needs.

03. Health
40% of the urban population lives in extreme unhealthy living conditions. We provide each child with appropriate medical care and train local poor communities in basic hygiene and health.

04. Protection
Drugs, violence, rape, prostitution: children are the first victims. We provide psychological and legal support based on our prevention and child protection Charter.


Philbook
Section titled “Philbook”

Service Category
Social Welfare and Development Organization

Primary Address
Blk 2, Pamasawata C3, Dagat-Dagatan, Caloocan

Contact
ig: @philbookngo

Mission & Purpose
Philbook in Caloocan is a non-profit organization focused on improving children’s access to culture and education. They organize community activities, such as field trips and holiday parties for local children, often featuring French volunteers who aim to promote these children’s development.

01. Street Libraries
We organized street libraries from Tuesday to Sunday. During these sessions, a story was read by a volunteer Philippine. Once the story was finished, the children received a coloring page and could participate in an activity with various logic, French, or math games that we had prepared beforehand.

02. Fixed library
After extensive renovations, the library has become a place where children can learn while having fun. We’ve implemented activities linked to specific skills (for example, math on Thursdays). Once the two activities are completed, we read them a story, and the children can then enjoy some reading time.

03. Cultural events
We organized an Olympics for about a hundred children, a Christmas party for 200 children from the slums, and a visit to the Planetarium. In addition, we coached a football team and organized matches with children from other slums.