PAGE: About Us → Our History
SOURCE: https://dioceseofkalookan.github.io/rcdok-website-new/about-us/history/

History of the Diocese | Diocese of Kalookan
Skip to content

History of the Diocese

The Roman Catholic Diocese of Kalookan encompasses the southern part of Caloocan City, Malabon City, and Navotas City. It is a vibrant community that has grown significantly since its inception.

Territory
South Caloocan, Malabon, and Navotas

Patron Saint
San Roque (St. Roch)


The Journey of Our Diocese
Section titled “The Journey of Our Diocese”

January 24, 1571
Manila Origin
On January 24, 1571, Miguel Lopez de Legaspi founded the City of Manila.
Joaquin, Nick (1990). Manila My Manila. Vera-Reyes, Inc. p. 137, 178.

February 6, 1579
Establishment of Diocese of Manila
Diocese of Manila was established
Aluit, Alfonso (1994). By Sword and Fire: The Destruction of Manila in World War II 3 February – 3 March 1945. Philippines: National Commission for Culture and the Arts. pp. 83–85

August 14, 1595
Elevation to Archdiocese and Creation of New Dioceses
Pope Clement VIII raised the Diocese to the status of an Archdiocese. Creation of the three new dioceses: Nueva Caceres, Nueva Segovia and Cebu.
“History – The Second Cathedral 1591-1600”. Manila Metropolitan Cathedral-Basilica Official Website. Retrieved on 2013-03-22.

May 3, 1572
Founding of Tondo Church
Tondo Church was established by the Augustinian Friars. Fray Alonzo Alvarado, OSA was the first minister.
Mendoza, Rose Marie. “History of Sto. Niño de Tondo Parish Church”. The Many Faces of Tondo Parish.

May 21, 1599
Origins of Malabon (Tambobong)
Malabon, formerly known as Tambobong, was founded by the Augustinians as a visita of Tondo. However, it must have existed previously, as one document clearly indicates. The town was composed of two small islands, Nabotas and Maysilo, both visitas of Tondo.
Galende, P. 1996. Angels in Stone: Augustinian Churches in the Philippines. Intramuros, Manila: San Agustin Museum San Agustin, Gaspar de, O.S.A., “Conquistas de las Islas Filipinas…”, Parte Primera, El Manuel Merino, O.S.A., Madrid, 1975, p.668

May 17, 1614
Malabon Parish under San Bartolome
The visita in Malabon became an independent parish under the avocation of San Bartolome Apostol. It was in this year that Fr. Luis Gutierrez, OSA was named vicar prior. During this year, the convent was relieved from paying any taxes to San Agustin Monastery “because it was very poor and the stipend given by the King was almost nothing”.
“Libros de Gobierno de la Provincia del Santissimo Nombre de Jesus de Filipinas”, Augustinian Archives, Valladolid, II, folio 58 v.

1765
First Visita in Caloocan
The first visita was established in Caloocan under the parish of Tondo. This was found in the first settlement in Libis Aromahan (Sitio de las Espinas) now known as Libis Espina
Galauran, Fausto. Ang Kasaysayan ng Simbahang Katoliko ng Kalookan. (1964)

April 20, 1771
Navotas Faithful Directed to Tambobong
A decree was made causing the friars to instruct the faithful of Navotas to attend Masses in the adjacent town of Tambobong.
Galende, P. 1996. Angels in Stone: Augustinian Churches in the Philippines. Intramuros, Manila: San Agustin Museum

1791
Fr. Patino Builds Malabon Bridge
Fr. Andres Patino, O.S.A. was assigned as the parish priest of San Bartolome de Malabon. He later supervised the construction of the bridge linking Malabon with Tinajeros. It was during his stint as parish priest that the celebration of Second Centenary of the parish was celebrated.
Jorde, Elviro, “Catalogo bio-biografico de los Religiosos Agustinos de la Provincia del Santissimo Nombre de Jesus de Filipinos…”, Manila, 1901, p. 486-487

April 8, 1815
Canonical Establishment of San Roque Parish
The Christian community in Caloocan was canonically established as the San Roque Parish by the Archbishop of Manila, Juan Antonio de Zulaibar, O.P. Pastoral care was entrusted to the Augustinian Recollects.
Both the accounts of Galauran (1964) and Serrano (with the annotations of Joaquin, 1971, p.5) identify the first parish priest as Fray Manuel Vaquero, OAR - The account of Fr Lleva identifies a certain Fray Manuel de San Miguel, OAR as first parish priest citing the “Libro de Gobierno” of Manila from 1812-1815. There lies the possibility of the latter as the religious name of Fray Manuel Vaquero.

1765
Creation of San Jose de Navotas Parish
The first visita was established in Caloocan under the parish of Tondo. This was found in the first settlement in Libis Aromahan (Sitio de las Espinas) now known as Libis Espina
Galauran, Fausto. Ang Kasaysayan ng Simbahang Katoliko ng Kalookan. (1964)

1765
First Visita in Caloocan
The first visita was established in Caloocan under the parish of Tondo. This was found in the first settlement in Libis Aromahan (Sitio de las Espinas) now known as Libis Espina
Galauran, Fausto. Ang Kasaysayan ng Simbahang Katoliko ng Kalookan. (1964)

June 28, 1859
Creation of San Jose de Navotas
The Archdiocese of Manila decreed on July 1, 1859 the creation of the parish of San Jose de Navotas. The residents of San Jose celebrated this historic occasion that took three decades to realize.

1866
The First Visita Kamalig
The first visita “kamalig” was built as “Visita de Concepcion”.
Source: Immaculate Conception Parish, Parochial History, Ang Munting Kasaysayan, 2001; Bryant, R. 2005. Navotas Kahapon, Ngayon at Bukas.

1884
La Loma Catholic Cemetery Opens
La Loma Catholic Cemetery (Formerly Cementerio de Binondo) was opened.
Source: Gaerlan, Martin (2007). “Cementerio de Binondo (La Loma Cemetery)”. Museo Santisima Trinidad.

1899
Refuge During the War
General Antonio Luna sought refuge in the church using the unfinished renovation for church extension at the back as a trench, launching their defense against the Americans.
Source: Galauran, Fausto. Ang Kasaysayan ng Simbahang Katoliko ng Kalookan (1964).

February 10, 1899
The Battle of Caloocan
At the latter part of the Battle of Caloocan, Gen. Luna continued to defend the town from the Americans but at the advance of the foreigners, the Filipinos were forced to give up. Many houses in the town were burned down with the church and the convent left standing. The Americans captured Caloocan and made use of the church as barracks and a field hospital. It was further utilized by the 20th Kansas Regiment under Col. Fredrick Funston.
Source: Galauran, Fausto. Ang Kasaysayan ng Simbahang Katoliko ng Kalookan (1964).

November 26, 1902
Invasion of Visita Concepcion
Iglesia Filipina Independiente invaded the Visita Concepcion.
Source: Immaculate Conception Parish, Parochial History, Ang Munting Kasaysayan, 2001.

November 24, 1906
Return of Visita Concepcion
The Supreme Court ordered the return of custody of the Visita Concepcion to the Roman Catholic Church.
Source: Immaculate Conception Parish, Parochial History, Ang Munting Kasaysayan, 2001.

September 8, 1907
La Purisima Concepcion Erected
By the power of Most Rev. Jeremias Harty, DD, then Archbishop of Manila, he erected the Visita Concepcion as La Purisima Concepcion de Malabon Parish.
Source: Immaculate Conception Parish, Parochial History, Ang Munting Kasaysayan, 2001.

May 1920
First Electric Lights in Navotas
Reddy Kilowatt arrived in Navotas and electric lights were installed in the church for the first time. The young sacristans were overjoyed because they will no longer use the stairs to light the hundreds of candles in the crystal chandeliers.
Source: 1965 San Jose de Navotas Souvenir Program.

1946
Arrival of the Oblates of Mary Immaculate
The Oblates of Mary Immaculate arrived through the invitation of the then Archbishop of Manila, Michael J. O’Doherty.
Source: Sison, C. (n.d.). History – Notre Dame of Greater Manila.

May 5, 1946
Founding of Our Lady of Grace Parish
Our Lady of Grace Parish in Grace Park Caloocan was founded. The first Parish Priest was Fr. Joseph Boyd, OMI.
Source: Records of the Diocese of Kalookan, Chancery office – Profile of Parishes.

June 28, 2003
Elevation to Cathedral
Upon the creation of the new Diocese of Kalookan, the San Roque Parish of Kalookan was elevated to the rank of a cathedral.
Source: “Quoniam Quaelibet”, Papal Bull by Pope St. John Paul II establishing the Diocese of Kalookan.

August 22, 2003
First Bishop Takes Possession
The Most Rev. Deogracias S. Iniguez, Jr., D.D, the first Bishop of Kalookan, took possession of the cathedral church. Msgr. Boanarges Lechuga, PC, was the first rector of the cathedral.
Source: Lleva, Edgardo. “A Glimpse of History: San Roque through the Decades” (2004).

August 16, 2013
10th Anniversary & First Relic
The Diocese of Kalookan celebrated its 10th Anniversary in the cathedral church with a Eucharistic Celebration offered by His Eminence, Gaudencio Cardinal Rosales, Archbishop-emeritus of Manila. Most Rev. Guiseppe Pinto, D.D., then Apostolic Nuncio to the Philippines was among the concelebrants. The cathedral’s first relic of San Roque was received in this Eucharistic Celebration.

2014
San Bartolome Quadricentennial
The commemoration of the 400 years’ anniversary of the San Bartolome Parish was celebrated. During the year’s celebration, the parish church was rededicated; the perpetual adoration chapel, the St. John XXIII Hall, the Quadricentennial stage and arch were inaugurated and blessed last May 10, 2014 headed by the Most Rev. Bernardito Auza, D.D. – the Apostolic Nuncio to Haiti.

2015
San Roque Bicentennial Anniversary
The Bicentennial Anniversary of San Roque Parish’s canonical establishment was celebrated with a Jubilee Year. Pope Francis imparted plenary indulgence for all those who would make pilgrimage to the cathedral church. The Jubilee Door was solemnly opened on this day by Kalookan’s then Apostolic Administrator, Most Rev. Francisco M. De Leon, D.D.

January 2, 2016
Second Bishop Takes Possession
The Most Rev. Pablo Virgilio S. David, D.D. took possession of the cathedral church as the second Bishop of Kalookan. He also assumed the position of parish priest.

2019
160th Founding Anniversary of San Jose de Navotas
To mark the celebration of its 160th founding anniversary, His Holiness, Pope Francis, appointed San Jose de Navotas Parish as a Jubilee Church. The opening of the Jubilee Door was presided by Most. Rev. Pablo Virgilio David, Bishop of Kalookan. The Parish Museum was opened, and the Municipal Government of Navotas declared San Jose de Navotas Parish Church as a local heritage site of the town through City Ordinance No. 2019-06.

February 25, 2021
500 Years of Christianity
A decree issued to the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of the Philippines (CBCP) by Pope Francis granted plenary indulgences to Filipinos visiting any of over 500 Jubilee Churches across the country to mark 500 years of Christianity in the Philippines. The Diocese of Kalookan declared San Bartolome Parish, San Roque Cathedral Parish, and the Diocesan Shrine and Parish of San Jose as their jubilee churches.

Looking to the Future
Section titled “Looking to the Future”

Today, the Diocese of Kalookan continues to grow, adapting to the modern needs of its urban parishioners while remaining steadfast in its mission of evangelization and social justice.